template/customization/logging.mdx, before:

---
title: "Logging"
description: "How to view logs from the template build"
icon: "eye"
---

The `onBuildLogs`/`on_build_logs` callback receives structured `LogEntry` objects with the following properties:

<CodeGroup dropdown>

```typescript
type LogEntry = {
  timestamp: Date
  level: 'debug' | 'info' | 'warn' | 'error'
  message: string
  toString(): string // Returns formatted log string
}
```

```python
@dataclass
class LogEntry:
    timestamp: datetime
    level: Literal["debug", "info", "warn", "error"]
    message: str

    def __str__(self) -> str:  # Returns formatted log string
```


</CodeGroup>

You can customize how logs are handled:

<CodeGroup dropdown>

```typescript
// Simple logging
onBuildLogs: (logEntry) => console.log(logEntry.toString());

// Custom formatting
onBuildLogs: (logEntry) => {
  const time = logEntry.timestamp.toISOString();
  console.log(`[${time}] ${logEntry.level.toUpperCase()}: ${logEntry.message}`);
};

// Filter by log level
onBuildLogs: (logEntry) => {
  if (logEntry.level === "error" || logEntry.level === "warn") {
    console.error(logEntry.toString());
  }
};
```

```python
# Simple logging
on_build_logs=lambda log_entry: print(log_entry)

# Custom formatting
def custom_logger(log_entry):
    time = log_entry.timestamp.isoformat()
    print(f"[{time}] {log_entry.level.upper()}: {log_entry.message}")

Template.build(template, alias="my-template", on_build_logs=custom_logger)

# Filter by log level
def error_logger(log_entry):
    if log_entry.level in ["error", "warn"]:
        print(f"ERROR/WARNING: {log_entry}", file=sys.stderr)

Template.build(template, alias="my-template", on_build_logs=error_logger)
```

</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

remove the start command logs outdated info

template/customization/logging.mdx, after:

---
title: "Logging"
description: "How to view logs from the template build"
icon: "eye"
---

You can retrieve the build logs using the SDK.

## SDK

The `onBuildLogs`/`on_build_logs` callback receives structured `LogEntry` objects with the following properties:

<CodeGroup dropdown>

```typescript
type LogEntry = {
  timestamp: Date
  level: 'debug' | 'info' | 'warn' | 'error'
  message: string
  toString(): string // Returns formatted log string
}
```

```python
@dataclass
class LogEntry:
    timestamp: datetime
    level: Literal["debug", "info", "warn", "error"]
    message: str

    def __str__(self) -> str:  # Returns formatted log string
```


</CodeGroup>

You can customize how logs are handled:

<CodeGroup dropdown>

```typescript
// Simple logging
onBuildLogs: (logEntry) => console.log(logEntry.toString());

// Custom formatting
onBuildLogs: (logEntry) => {
  const time = logEntry.timestamp.toISOString();
  console.log(`[${time}] ${logEntry.level.toUpperCase()}: ${logEntry.message}`);
};

// Filter by log level
onBuildLogs: (logEntry) => {
  if (logEntry.level === "error" || logEntry.level === "warn") {
    console.error(logEntry.toString());
  }
};
```

```python
# Simple logging
on_build_logs=lambda log_entry: print(log_entry)

# Custom formatting
def custom_logger(log_entry):
    time = log_entry.timestamp.isoformat()
    print(f"[{time}] {log_entry.level.upper()}: {log_entry.message}")

Template.build(template, alias="my-template", on_build_logs=custom_logger)

# Filter by log level
def error_logger(log_entry):
    if log_entry.level in ["error", "warn"]:
        print(f"ERROR/WARNING: {log_entry}", file=sys.stderr)

Template.build(template, alias="my-template", on_build_logs=error_logger)
```

</CodeGroup>
